in the first year of Darius the son of a
SEO heiress of the lineage of the Medes
who was made king over the realm of the
Chaldeans in the first year of his reign
I Daniel understood by the books the
number of the years specified by the
word of the Lord through Jeremiah the
Prophet that he would accomplish 70
years in the desolations of Jerusalem
then I set my face for the Lord God to
make request by prayer and supplications
with fasting sackcloth and ashes and I
prayed to the Lord my God and made
confession and said O Lord great and
awesome God who keeps his covenant and
mercy with those who love him and with
those who keep his Commandments we have
sinned and committed iniquity we have
done wickedly and rebelled even by
departing from your precepts and your
judgments
neither have we heated your servants the
prophets who spoke in your name to our
kings and our princes to our fathers and
all the people of the land Oh Lord
righteousness belongs to you but to us
shame a face as it is this day to the
men of Judah to the inhabitants of
Jerusalem and all Israel those near and
those far off in all the countries to
which you have driven them because of
the unfaithfulness which they have
committed against you O Lord to us
belongs shame a face to our Kings our
Prince's and our fathers because we have
sinned against you to the Lord our God
belong mercy and forgiveness though we
have rebelled against him we have not
obeyed the voice of the Lord our God to
walk in his laws which he set before us
by his servants the prophets yes all
Israel has transgressed your law and has
departed so as not to obey your voice
therefore the curse and the oath written
in the law of Moses the servant of God
have been poured out on us because we
have sinned against him and he has
confirmed his words which he spoke
against us and against our judges who
judged us by bringing upon us a great
disaster
for under the whole heaven such has
never been done as what has been done to
Jerusalem as it is written in the law of
Moses all this disaster has come upon us
yet we have not made our prayer before
the Lord our God that we might turn from
our iniquities and understand your truth
therefore the Lord has kept the disaster
in mind and brought it upon us for the
Lord our God is righteous in all the
works which he does though we have not
obeyed his voice and now O Lord our God
who brought your people out of the land
of Egypt with a mighty hand and made
yourself a name as it is this day we
have sinned we have done wickedly O Lord
according to all your righteousness I
pray that your anger and your fury be
turned away from your city Jerusalem
your holy mountain because for our sins
and for the iniquities of our fathers
Jerusalem and your people are a reproach
to all those around us
now therefore our God here the prayer of
your servant and his supplications and
for the Lord's sake cause your face to
shine on your sanctuary which is
disciplined
oh my god
incline your ear and healer open your
eyes and see our desolations and the
city which is called by your name for we
do not present our supplications before
you because of our righteous deeds but
because of your great mercies O Lord
hear o Lord forgive
listen and act do not delay for your own
sake my god for your city and your
people are called by your name now while
I was speaking praying and confessing my
sin and the sin of my people Israel and
presenting my supplication before the
Lord my God for the holy mountain of my
god yes while I was speaking in prayer
the man Gabriel whom I had seen in the
vision at the beginning being caused to
fly swiftly reached me about the time of
the evening offering and he informed me
and talked with me and said o Daniel I
have now come forth to give you skill to
understand at the beginning of your
supplications the command went out and I
have come to tell you for you are
greatly beloved therefore consider the
matter and understand the vision seventy
weeks are determined for your people and
for your holy city to finish the
transgression to make an end of sins to
make reconciliation for iniquity to
bring in everlasting righteousness to
seal up vision and prophecy and to
anoint the most holy
know therefore and understand that from
the going forth of the command to
restore and build jerusalem until
messiah the prince there shall be seven
weeks and sixty-two weeks the street
shall be built again and the wall even
in trouble sometimes
and after the sixty-two weeks Messiah
shall be cut off but not for himself and
the people of the prince who is to come
shall destroy the city and the sanctuary
the end of it shall be with a flood
until the end of the war desolations are
determined then he shall confirm a
covenant with many for one week
but in the middle of the week he shall
bring an end to sacrifice and offering
and on the wing of abominations shall be
one who makes desolate even until the
consummation which is determined is
poured out on the desolate
you